For my final project, I plan to do a variation of the game tetris. The game will comprise of multiple different shapes like tetris. However, the twist on the game is that now the shapes can come in triangles that combine with another triangle to form a regular block. I decided to do suck a project since tetris is a game that would work well in a 2d environment with a UI generated by Cinder. Since tetris by itself may be too easy for a 3 week project, I decided to pull the twist of having half blocks(changed from triangles) attached to the regular tetris blocks as an extension upon regular tetris that would hopefully make the game more complex and of sufficient difficulty to program. I have familiarity with the game concepts and ideas, playing the game often when I was young, and occasionally now with alternative versions like Tetris 99 on the Switch, which lead me to choosing tetris as a base model for my project.

Starting drafts on possible new blocks, adding blocks for some of the other blocks:
Standard 1 by 4 tetris block |____| plus a half |_| at the end.


The game will still be played the same way as tetris, trying to fill in the entire row, but now the difficulty jumps up, with the player needing to account for the half blocks.

I plan to use cinder to create and handle the UI of the game, displaying the score of the player, and the tetris blocks on the board. For my external libraries requirement, I would probably use a physics library like box2d, in order to deal with the tetris blocks falling down and hitting the bottom, which can be accessed in the link https://box2d.org/documentation/index.html, and using their reddit page if I have any problems using it, with the link https://www.reddit.com/r/box2d/.

Rough timeline: In the first week, I would hope to accomplish the basic UI part of the game, with the game being able to display the board with user input(arrow keys for movement and changing sides) and feedback, but no scoring or block collision yet. I hope to start on creating the new models by the end of the first week. By the second week, I plan on finishing the models and correctly code the block collision with triangles and square along with block movement using the physics engine library, and correctly remove blocks when a row is filled competely with blocks. In the third week, I hope to iron out any bugs still existing, and add in scores at the end of a game, counting the number of rows the player managed to fill.

Possible extensions worth considering:

Adding different difficulty, where the player could choose the speed at which blocks fell
Adding different modes, where the player could choose what kind of tetris blocks they would want in their game.
Add options to fast drop/instant drop tetris blocks

Additional modes to add besides classic and reloaded:
1. Loose collision for a disconnected mode causing blocks to fall apart
2. Bomb mode where a bomb explodes nearby 3 by 3 blocks
